Igris OS Desktop Environment: User Manual
Welcome to the Igris Desktop Environment, a fully voice-activated, modular workspace designed for efficiency. This guide will walk you through its core features and how to use them.

1. Launching and Exiting
To Start: From the main Igris Control GUI, simply say launch desktop mode. The desktop will open in a fullscreen window.
To Exit: Press the Escape key on your keyboard. This will close all open desktop applications and return you to the main control GUI.
2. The Desktop Interface
The desktop is composed of three main areas:

The Desktop: A clean space where your application windows and widgets live. A central "Igris Desktop Shell" label will display temporary messages and confirmations.
The Taskbar: Located at the bottom of the screen, it displays a live clock on the right and buttons for all your running applications on the left. The currently focused application will be highlighted.
Widgets: Small, dynamic information panels that provide live system data.
3. Voice Commands
All desktop actions are controlled by voice from the main Igris Control GUI.

Managing Applications
Launch a Containerized App:

Command: desktop launch app image_name=<DOCKER_IMAGE>
Example: desktop launch app image_name=hello-world
This will open a new window and display the output of the specified Docker container.
Launch an Interactive Terminal:

Command: open interactive terminal
This launches a new window with a fully interactive ubuntu shell, perfect for running commands inside a container.
Launch the Native File Browser:

Command: open the file browser
This opens the built-in file browser application. You can navigate your home directory by double-clicking folders.
Managing Windows
List Open Windows:

Command: list open windows
The names of all open application windows will be displayed on the desktop.
Switch Between Windows:

Command: switch to window app_name=<APP_NAME>
Example: switch to window app_name=file_browser
This brings the specified window to the front and gives it focus.
Tile Windows:

Command: tile windows
This automatically arranges all open windows in a grid layout to fill the screen.
Close the Active Window:

Command: close the desktop window
This will close the currently focused application window.
Managing Widgets
Add a Widget:

Command: show system stats widget
Command: show network stats widget
These commands will place the respective widgets on your desktop.
List Active Widgets:

Command: list desktop widgets
The names of all active widgets will be displayed on the desktop.
Remove a Widget:

Command: remove desktop widget name=<WIDGET_NAME>
Example: remove desktop widget name=system_stats
This removes the specified widget from the desktop.